README.md, before:

# Bless This Redmine SSO Plugin

A comprehensive OAuth/OpenID Connect SSO plugin for Redmine that supports any OAuth 2.0 provider by BlessThis.software.

## Features

- **Universal OAuth Support**: Works with any OAuth 2.0/OpenID Connect provider
- **Flexible Authentication**: Optional SSO-only mode or hybrid with username/password
- **User Provisioning**: Automatic user creation from OAuth provider data
- **Admin Configuration**: Easy setup through Redmine's admin interface
- **Security Features**: State parameter validation, secure token handling
- **MFA Bypass**: SSO logins skip Redmine's MFA prompts (configurable)
- **Provider Examples**: Pre-configured examples for popular providers

## Installation

1. Copy the plugin to your Redmine plugins directory:
   ```bash
   cd /path/to/redmine/plugins
   git clone https://github.com/murich/bless-this-redmine-sso.git bless_this_redmine_sso
   ```

2. Install plugin dependencies (if any):
   ```bash
   bundle install
   ```

3. Run plugin migrations:
   ```bash
   bundle exec rake redmine:plugins:migrate RAILS_ENV=production
   ```

4. Restart your Redmine instance

## Configuration

### Web Interface
1. Go to **Administration → Plugins → OAuth SSO Plugin → Configure**

2. *(Optional)* Use the **Quick Setup** wizard to fetch OpenID Connect metadata automatically:
   - Pick a provider template (Google, Microsoft Entra ID, Casdoor, or Custom).
   - Enter any provider-specific inputs that appear (e.g., Microsoft tenant ID or Casdoor base URL).
   - Adjust the discovery URL if needed and click **Load from discovery**. Successful requests fill in the endpoints, scope, and mapping preset; warnings highlight fields you may still need to complete manually.

3. Review or adjust the provider settings below the wizard:
   - **Provider Name**: Display name for your OAuth provider
   - **Client (application) ID**: OAuth application client identifier (called "Application (client) ID" in Microsoft Azure AD)
   - **Client Secret**: OAuth application client secret
   - **Authorization URL**: OAuth authorization endpoint
   - **Token URL**: OAuth token exchange endpoint
   - **User Info URL**: Endpoint to retrieve user information
   - **Scope**: OAuth scopes (e.g., "openid email profile")
   - **Expected issuer**: OpenID Connect issuer URL that must match the `id_token` (leave blank to skip issuer verification)
   - **Expected client ID**: Optional audience override for the `id_token` (defaults to the OAuth client ID)
   - **JWKS URL**: Public JSON Web Key Set endpoint required to validate RS256-signed ID tokens
   - **Redirect URI**: Leave empty to auto-generate

   Any custom fields defined for Redmine users will appear below with a field to map OAuth keys. Provide a comma-separated list of keys for each custom field; leave blank to ignore it.
    - **Auto-create Users**: Automatically create Redmine accounts for new OAuth logins
    - **Update Existing Users**: Synchronize name, email, and mapped custom fields on each OAuth login (enabled by default)
    - **Match Users by Email**: Allow linking to existing accounts when emails match but logins differ (disabled by default)
    - **Bypass Redmine MFA**: Skip Redmine's MFA activation for SSO logins
    - **Default Group IDs**: Comma-separated list of group IDs added to new users
    - **Logout URL**: Optional provider logout endpoint to redirect users after Redmine logout

4. **Optional**: Enable "SSO-Only Mode" to disable username/password login

### Command Line Interface
Run all tasks with `bundle exec rake` from your Redmine directory. The `redmine:bless_this_sso:configure` task accepts environment variables so you can script repeatable setups.

#### Automatic configuration with discovery

`redmine:bless_this_sso:configure` can preload OAuth endpoints in the same way as the admin wizard. Provide a provider template and any required hints, then run the task:

```bash
# Google Workspace (loads public Google metadata)
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:configure \
  OAUTH_PROVIDER=google \
  OAUTH_CLIENT_ID=your-client-id \
  OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET=your-client-secret

# Microsoft Entra ID / Azure AD (replace the tenant ID with yours)
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:configure \
  OAUTH_PROVIDER=microsoft \
  OAUTH_MICROSOFT_TENANT=580db9c2-c9b5-4666-9ca4-3f389ee311fc \
  OAUTH_CLIENT_ID=your-client-id \
  OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET=your-client-secret

# Casdoor (base URL can be a hostname or full https:// origin)
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:configure \
  OAUTH_PROVIDER=casdoor \
  OAUTH_CASDOOR_BASE_URL=https://door.casdoor.com \
  OAUTH_CLIENT_ID=your-client-id \
  OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET=your-client-secret

# Custom OpenID provider
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:configure \
  OAUTH_DISCOVERY_URL=https://id.example.com/.well-known/openid-configuration \
  OAUTH_CLIENT_ID=your-client-id \
  OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET=your-client-secret
```

Discovery options:

- `OAUTH_PROVIDER` - choose `google`, `microsoft`, or `casdoor` to use the built-in presets (`custom` or empty skips discovery).
- `OAUTH_TENANT` / `OAUTH_MICROSOFT_TENANT` - Microsoft tenant ID or `common`.
- `OAUTH_BASE_URL` / `OAUTH_CASDOOR_BASE_URL` - Casdoor base URL (e.g. `door.casdoor.com` or `https://door.example.com`).
- `OAUTH_DISCOVERY_URL` - override the well-known metadata endpoint for any provider.

When discovery succeeds the task prints the URL it queried, applies the returned authorization/token/userinfo/JWKS endpoints, fills the scope and recommended mapping preset, and echoes any missing optional fields as warnings. You can override the discovered values in the same command by appending other `OAUTH_*` variables.

After configuration you can enable SSO-only mode or tweak behaviour with the management tasks shown below. Running `configure` again will overwrite previous plugin settings, so include all overrides you care about each time.

#### Manual overrides and provisioning flags

- `OAUTH_SCOPE` - requested scopes (defaults to `openid email profile` when discovery does not specify any).
- `OAUTH_FIELD_PRESET` - mapping preset (`generic`, `microsoft`, `google`, `casdoor`).
- `OAUTH_LOGIN_FIELD`, `OAUTH_EMAIL_FIELD`, `OAUTH_FIRSTNAME_FIELD`, `OAUTH_LASTNAME_FIELD` - override user attribute mappings.
- `OAUTH_AUTO_CREATE`, `OAUTH_UPDATE_EXISTING`, `OAUTH_MATCH_BY_EMAIL`, `OAUTH_BYPASS_TWOFA`, `OAUTH_PKCE` - set to `1` or `0` to toggle provisioning options.
- `OAUTH_DEFAULT_GROUPS` - comma-separated Redmine group IDs assigned to new users.
- `OAUTH_REDIRECT_URI` - force a specific callback URL (leave blank to auto-generate).
- `OAUTH_EXPECTED_ISSUER`, `OAUTH_EXPECTED_CLIENT_ID`, `OAUTH_JWKS_URL` - tighten ID token validation.
- `OAUTH_AUTHORIZE_URL`, `OAUTH_TOKEN_URL`, `OAUTH_USERINFO_URL`, `OAUTH_LOGOUT_URL` - explicit endpoint overrides that replace discovery results.

#### Management tasks

```bash
# Check current status and the saved endpoints
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:status

# Enable/disable OAuth SSO
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:enable
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:disable

# Toggle login behaviour
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:enable_sso_only
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:disable_sso_only

# Adjust account matching and MFA bypass
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:enable_match_by_email
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:disable_match_by_email
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:enable_bypass_twofa
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:disable_bypass_twofa

# Optional PKCE support
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:enable_pkce
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:disable_pkce

# Basic validation helpers
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:test
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:validate_flow
# After visiting the authorize URL, rerun with:
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:validate_flow OAUTH_CODE=the-code-from-your-redirect

# Reset settings or list available tasks
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:reset
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:help
```

`validate_flow` walks through the full authorization code exchange. The `/oauth/authorize` and `/oauth/callback` routes stay accessible even when OAuth SSO is disabled; without a valid configuration they simply redirect back to the standard login form so you can recover safely. The redirect URI defaults to `http://localhost`; register it with your provider and expect the final redirect page to fail to load locally-that is normal because the task only needs the `code` parameter.

### ID Token Validation

When the OAuth provider returns an `id_token`, the plugin verifies the signature and the OpenID Connect claims using the [`jwt`](https://github.com/jwt/ruby-jwt) library. HMAC-signed tokens (`HS256`, `HS384`, `HS512`) are validated with the configured OAuth client secret, while RSA-signed tokens (`RS256`) are checked against the public keys served by the **JWKS URL** (or `OAUTH_JWKS_URL`) setting. When provided, the **Expected issuer** and **Expected client ID** settings must match the `iss` and `aud` claims and can also be set through the `OAUTH_EXPECTED_ISSUER` and `OAUTH_EXPECTED_CLIENT_ID` environment variables; leave them blank to skip those specific checks. If any validation step fails, the login is aborted and the user is shown an error describing the validation issue.

## Supported Providers

### Casdoor
```
Authorization URL: http://localhost:8082/login/oauth/authorize
Token URL: http://casdoor_app:8000/api/login/oauth/access_token
Expected issuer: http://casdoor_app:8000
JWKS URL: http://casdoor_app:8000/.well-known/jwks.json
User Info URL: http://casdoor_app:8000/api/get-account
Logout URL (optional): http://casdoor_app:8000/logout
Expected client ID: redmine-client-id
Scope: openid email profile
```

### Google OAuth
```
Authorization URL: https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/v2/auth
Token URL: https://oauth2.googleapis.com/token
Expected issuer: https://accounts.google.com
JWKS URL: https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v3/certs
User Info URL: https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v2/userinfo
Logout URL (optional): https://accounts.google.com/logout
Expected client ID: your-google-client-id
Scope: openid email profile
```

### Microsoft Azure AD
```
Authorization URL: https://login.microsoftonline.com/{tenant}/oauth2/v2.0/authorize
Token URL: https://login.microsoftonline.com/{tenant}/oauth2/v2.0/token
Expected issuer: https://login.microsoftonline.com/{tenant}/v2.0
JWKS URL: https://login.microsoftonline.com/{tenant}/discovery/v2.0/keys
User Info URL: https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/me or https://graph.microsoft.com/oidc/userinfo
Logout URL (optional): https://login.microsoftonline.com/{tenant}/oauth2/v2.0/logout
Expected client ID: your-azure-client-id
Scope: openid email profile User.Read
```

> Hint: replace `{tenant}` with your tenant ID or `common` for multi-tenant apps.

Microsoft Azure AD requires the `User.Read` scope and administrator consent in the app registration so the plugin can access user information.

## SSO-Only Mode

When enabled, SSO-Only mode will:
- Redirect all login attempts to your OAuth provider
- Disable the username/password login form
- Show a warning about database recovery if OAuth fails

**Important**: If you can't log in through OAuth, disable SSO-only mode via rake command:
```bash
rake redmine:bless_this_sso:disable_sso_only
```

Or via database if rake is unavailable:
```sql
UPDATE settings SET value = REPLACE(value, '"oauth_sso_only":"1"', '"oauth_sso_only":"0"') WHERE name = 'plugin_redmine_oauth_sso';
```

## Two-Factor Authentication

SSO logins bypass Redmine's built-in MFA activation flow. The **Bypass Redmine MFA** option appears under the User Provisioning settings. To require Redmine MFA after SSO, disable this option in the UI or run `rake redmine:bless_this_sso:disable_bypass_twofa` (or set `OAUTH_BYPASS_TWOFA=0` when using the `configure` task).

## Logout Flow

When a user logs out of Redmine:

- The Redmine session is terminated.
- If a **Logout URL** is configured, the user is redirected there to end the session with the OAuth provider.

## User Mapping

The plugin maps OAuth user data to Redmine fields using configurable lists of JSON keys. In the plugin settings you can define comma-separated lists for each field; the first non-blank value found in the user info response is used.

A preset dropdown is available to load default mappings for common providers (Generic OpenID, Microsoft Azure AD, Google, Casdoor). After selecting a preset you can still adjust the fields manually. To see which keys your provider returns and how they resolve, run `rake redmine:bless_this_sso:validate_flow`.

The following settings are available (defaults shown):

- **`oauth_login_field`** - `name,preferred_username,sub,login,userPrincipalName`
- **`oauth_email_field`** - `email,mail,userPrincipalName`
- **`oauth_firstname_field`** - `given_name,firstName,first_name,givenName`
- **`oauth_lastname_field`** - `family_name,lastName,last_name,sn`

For each custom field on the Redmine user object an additional setting appears. Enter a comma-separated list of OAuth response keys; the first non-blank value populates that custom field. Leave the field blank to ignore it.

### Example: Microsoft Azure AD

For Microsoft Azure AD / Microsoft Graph the defaults already include the correct keys:

```
oauth_login_field: userPrincipalName
oauth_email_field: mail,userPrincipalName
oauth_firstname_field: givenName
oauth_lastname_field: sn,surname
```

## Security

- Uses state parameter to prevent CSRF attacks
- id_token / JWKS handling
- PKCE support in OAuth flow
- Validates OAuth responses before user creation
- Generates secure random passwords for OAuth users
- Logs all authentication attempts for auditing

## Troubleshooting

### OAuth Configuration Issues
1. Verify all URLs are accessible from your Redmine server
2. Check client ID and secret are correct
3. Ensure redirect URI matches exactly
4. Review Redmine logs for detailed error messages

### User Creation Problems
1. Check that required user data (email, username) is provided by OAuth
2. Verify user doesn't already exist with conflicting data
3. Ensure Redmine has permissions to create users

### SSO-Only Mode Recovery
If locked out due to SSO-only mode:
1. Use the rake command: `rake redmine:bless_this_sso:disable_sso_only`
2. Or access your Redmine database and run the SQL command shown in the admin interface
3. Restart Redmine to clear cached settings

## License

This plugin is released under the MIT License.

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Commit your changes
4. Push to the branch
5. Create a Pull Request

Commit message:

Feature: configurable Case-insensitive login matching

README.md, after:

# Bless This Redmine SSO Plugin

A comprehensive OAuth/OpenID Connect SSO plugin for Redmine that supports any OAuth 2.0 provider by BlessThis.software.

## Features

- **Universal OAuth Support**: Works with any OAuth 2.0/OpenID Connect provider
- **Flexible Authentication**: Optional SSO-only mode or hybrid with username/password
- **User Provisioning**: Automatic user creation from OAuth provider data
- **Admin Configuration**: Easy setup through Redmine's admin interface
- **Security Features**: State parameter validation, secure token handling
- **MFA Bypass**: SSO logins skip Redmine's MFA prompts (configurable)
- **Provider Examples**: Pre-configured examples for popular providers

## Installation

1. Copy the plugin to your Redmine plugins directory:
   ```bash
   cd /path/to/redmine/plugins
   git clone https://github.com/murich/bless-this-redmine-sso.git bless_this_redmine_sso
   ```

2. Install plugin dependencies (if any):
   ```bash
   bundle install
   ```

3. Run plugin migrations:
   ```bash
   bundle exec rake redmine:plugins:migrate RAILS_ENV=production
   ```

4. Restart your Redmine instance

## Configuration

### Web Interface
1. Go to **Administration → Plugins → OAuth SSO Plugin → Configure**

2. *(Optional)* Use the **Quick Setup** wizard to fetch OpenID Connect metadata automatically:
   - Pick a provider template (Google, Microsoft Entra ID, Casdoor, or Custom).
   - Enter any provider-specific inputs that appear (e.g., Microsoft tenant ID or Casdoor base URL).
   - Adjust the discovery URL if needed and click **Load from discovery**. Successful requests fill in the endpoints, scope, and mapping preset; warnings highlight fields you may still need to complete manually.

3. Review or adjust the provider settings below the wizard:
   - **Provider Name**: Display name for your OAuth provider
   - **Client (application) ID**: OAuth application client identifier (called "Application (client) ID" in Microsoft Azure AD)
   - **Client Secret**: OAuth application client secret
   - **Authorization URL**: OAuth authorization endpoint
   - **Token URL**: OAuth token exchange endpoint
   - **User Info URL**: Endpoint to retrieve user information
   - **Scope**: OAuth scopes (e.g., "openid email profile")
   - **Expected issuer**: OpenID Connect issuer URL that must match the `id_token` (leave blank to skip issuer verification)
   - **Expected client ID**: Optional audience override for the `id_token` (defaults to the OAuth client ID)
   - **JWKS URL**: Public JSON Web Key Set endpoint required to validate RS256-signed ID tokens
   - **Redirect URI**: Leave empty to auto-generate

   Any custom fields defined for Redmine users will appear below with a field to map OAuth keys. Provide a comma-separated list of keys for each custom field; leave blank to ignore it.
    - **Auto-create Users**: Automatically create Redmine accounts for new OAuth logins
    - **Update Existing Users**: Synchronize name, email, and mapped custom fields on each OAuth login (enabled by default)
    - **Match Users by Email**: Allow linking to existing accounts when emails match but logins differ (disabled by default)
    - **Case-insensitive Login Matching**: Treat OAuth usernames as matching existing logins even when casing differs (enabled by default; disable to require an exact match)
    - **Bypass Redmine MFA**: Skip Redmine's MFA activation for SSO logins
    - **Default Group IDs**: Comma-separated list of group IDs added to new users
    - **Logout URL**: Optional provider logout endpoint to redirect users after Redmine logout

4. **Optional**: Enable "SSO-Only Mode" to disable username/password login

### Command Line Interface
Run all tasks with `bundle exec rake` from your Redmine directory. The `redmine:bless_this_sso:configure` task accepts environment variables so you can script repeatable setups.

#### Automatic configuration with discovery

`redmine:bless_this_sso:configure` can preload OAuth endpoints in the same way as the admin wizard. Provide a provider template and any required hints, then run the task:

```bash
# Google Workspace (loads public Google metadata)
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:configure \
  OAUTH_PROVIDER=google \
  OAUTH_CLIENT_ID=your-client-id \
  OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET=your-client-secret

# Microsoft Entra ID / Azure AD (replace the tenant ID with yours)
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:configure \
  OAUTH_PROVIDER=microsoft \
  OAUTH_MICROSOFT_TENANT=580db9c2-c9b5-4666-9ca4-3f389ee311fc \
  OAUTH_CLIENT_ID=your-client-id \
  OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET=your-client-secret

# Casdoor (base URL can be a hostname or full https:// origin)
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:configure \
  OAUTH_PROVIDER=casdoor \
  OAUTH_CASDOOR_BASE_URL=https://door.casdoor.com \
  OAUTH_CLIENT_ID=your-client-id \
  OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET=your-client-secret

# Custom OpenID provider
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:configure \
  OAUTH_DISCOVERY_URL=https://id.example.com/.well-known/openid-configuration \
  OAUTH_CLIENT_ID=your-client-id \
  OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET=your-client-secret
```

Discovery options:

- `OAUTH_PROVIDER` - choose `google`, `microsoft`, or `casdoor` to use the built-in presets (`custom` or empty skips discovery).
- `OAUTH_TENANT` / `OAUTH_MICROSOFT_TENANT` - Microsoft tenant ID or `common`.
- `OAUTH_BASE_URL` / `OAUTH_CASDOOR_BASE_URL` - Casdoor base URL (e.g. `door.casdoor.com` or `https://door.example.com`).
- `OAUTH_DISCOVERY_URL` - override the well-known metadata endpoint for any provider.

When discovery succeeds the task prints the URL it queried, applies the returned authorization/token/userinfo/JWKS endpoints, fills the scope and recommended mapping preset, and echoes any missing optional fields as warnings. You can override the discovered values in the same command by appending other `OAUTH_*` variables.

After configuration you can enable SSO-only mode or tweak behaviour with the management tasks shown below. Running `configure` again will overwrite previous plugin settings, so include all overrides you care about each time.

#### Manual overrides and provisioning flags

- `OAUTH_SCOPE` - requested scopes (defaults to `openid email profile` when discovery does not specify any).
- `OAUTH_FIELD_PRESET` - mapping preset (`generic`, `microsoft`, `google`, `casdoor`).
- `OAUTH_LOGIN_FIELD`, `OAUTH_EMAIL_FIELD`, `OAUTH_FIRSTNAME_FIELD`, `OAUTH_LASTNAME_FIELD` - override user attribute mappings.
- `OAUTH_AUTO_CREATE`, `OAUTH_UPDATE_EXISTING`, `OAUTH_MATCH_BY_EMAIL`, `OAUTH_BYPASS_TWOFA`, `OAUTH_PKCE` - set to `1` or `0` to toggle provisioning options.
- `OAUTH_CASE_INSENSITIVE_LOGIN` - set to `1` (default) or `0` to control case-insensitive login matching.
- `OAUTH_DEFAULT_GROUPS` - comma-separated Redmine group IDs assigned to new users.
- `OAUTH_REDIRECT_URI` - force a specific callback URL (leave blank to auto-generate).
- `OAUTH_EXPECTED_ISSUER`, `OAUTH_EXPECTED_CLIENT_ID`, `OAUTH_JWKS_URL` - tighten ID token validation.
- `OAUTH_AUTHORIZE_URL`, `OAUTH_TOKEN_URL`, `OAUTH_USERINFO_URL`, `OAUTH_LOGOUT_URL` - explicit endpoint overrides that replace discovery results.

#### Management tasks

```bash
# Check current status and the saved endpoints
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:status

# Enable/disable OAuth SSO
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:enable
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:disable

# Toggle login behaviour
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:enable_sso_only
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:disable_sso_only

# Adjust account matching and MFA bypass
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:enable_match_by_email
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:disable_match_by_email
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:enable_case_insensitive_login
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:disable_case_insensitive_login
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:enable_bypass_twofa
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:disable_bypass_twofa

# Optional PKCE support
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:enable_pkce
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:disable_pkce

# Basic validation helpers
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:test
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:validate_flow
# After visiting the authorize URL, rerun with:
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:validate_flow OAUTH_CODE=the-code-from-your-redirect

# Reset settings or list available tasks
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:reset
bundle exec rake redmine:bless_this_sso:help
```

`validate_flow` walks through the full authorization code exchange. The `/oauth/authorize` and `/oauth/callback` routes stay accessible even when OAuth SSO is disabled; without a valid configuration they simply redirect back to the standard login form so you can recover safely. The redirect URI defaults to `http://localhost`; register it with your provider and expect the final redirect page to fail to load locally-that is normal because the task only needs the `code` parameter.

### ID Token Validation

When the OAuth provider returns an `id_token`, the plugin verifies the signature and the OpenID Connect claims using the [`jwt`](https://github.com/jwt/ruby-jwt) library. HMAC-signed tokens (`HS256`, `HS384`, `HS512`) are validated with the configured OAuth client secret, while RSA-signed tokens (`RS256`) are checked against the public keys served by the **JWKS URL** (or `OAUTH_JWKS_URL`) setting. When provided, the **Expected issuer** and **Expected client ID** settings must match the `iss` and `aud` claims and can also be set through the `OAUTH_EXPECTED_ISSUER` and `OAUTH_EXPECTED_CLIENT_ID` environment variables; leave them blank to skip those specific checks. If any validation step fails, the login is aborted and the user is shown an error describing the validation issue.

## Supported Providers

### Casdoor
```
Authorization URL: http://localhost:8082/login/oauth/authorize
Token URL: http://casdoor_app:8000/api/login/oauth/access_token
Expected issuer: http://casdoor_app:8000
JWKS URL: http://casdoor_app:8000/.well-known/jwks.json
User Info URL: http://casdoor_app:8000/api/get-account
Logout URL (optional): http://casdoor_app:8000/logout
Expected client ID: redmine-client-id
Scope: openid email profile
```

### Google OAuth
```
Authorization URL: https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/v2/auth
Token URL: https://oauth2.googleapis.com/token
Expected issuer: https://accounts.google.com
JWKS URL: https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v3/certs
User Info URL: https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v2/userinfo
Logout URL (optional): https://accounts.google.com/logout
Expected client ID: your-google-client-id
Scope: openid email profile
```

### Microsoft Azure AD
```
Authorization URL: https://login.microsoftonline.com/{tenant}/oauth2/v2.0/authorize
Token URL: https://login.microsoftonline.com/{tenant}/oauth2/v2.0/token
Expected issuer: https://login.microsoftonline.com/{tenant}/v2.0
JWKS URL: https://login.microsoftonline.com/{tenant}/discovery/v2.0/keys
User Info URL: https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/me or https://graph.microsoft.com/oidc/userinfo
Logout URL (optional): https://login.microsoftonline.com/{tenant}/oauth2/v2.0/logout
Expected client ID: your-azure-client-id
Scope: openid email profile User.Read
```

> Hint: replace `{tenant}` with your tenant ID or `common` for multi-tenant apps.

Microsoft Azure AD requires the `User.Read` scope and administrator consent in the app registration so the plugin can access user information.

## SSO-Only Mode

When enabled, SSO-Only mode will:
- Redirect all login attempts to your OAuth provider
- Disable the username/password login form
- Show a warning about database recovery if OAuth fails

**Important**: If you can't log in through OAuth, disable SSO-only mode via rake command:
```bash
rake redmine:bless_this_sso:disable_sso_only
```

Or via database if rake is unavailable:
```sql
UPDATE settings SET value = REPLACE(value, '"oauth_sso_only":"1"', '"oauth_sso_only":"0"') WHERE name = 'plugin_redmine_oauth_sso';
```

## Two-Factor Authentication

SSO logins bypass Redmine's built-in MFA activation flow. The **Bypass Redmine MFA** option appears under the User Provisioning settings. To require Redmine MFA after SSO, disable this option in the UI or run `rake redmine:bless_this_sso:disable_bypass_twofa` (or set `OAUTH_BYPASS_TWOFA=0` when using the `configure` task).

## Logout Flow

When a user logs out of Redmine:

- The Redmine session is terminated.
- If a **Logout URL** is configured, the user is redirected there to end the session with the OAuth provider.

## User Mapping

The plugin maps OAuth user data to Redmine fields using configurable lists of JSON keys. In the plugin settings you can define comma-separated lists for each field; the first non-blank value found in the user info response is used.

A preset dropdown is available to load default mappings for common providers (Generic OpenID, Microsoft Azure AD, Google, Casdoor). After selecting a preset you can still adjust the fields manually. To see which keys your provider returns and how they resolve, run `rake redmine:bless_this_sso:validate_flow`.

The following settings are available (defaults shown):

- **`oauth_login_field`** - `name,preferred_username,sub,login,userPrincipalName`
- **`oauth_email_field`** - `email,mail,userPrincipalName`
- **`oauth_firstname_field`** - `given_name,firstName,first_name,givenName`
- **`oauth_lastname_field`** - `family_name,lastName,last_name,sn`

For each custom field on the Redmine user object an additional setting appears. Enter a comma-separated list of OAuth response keys; the first non-blank value populates that custom field. Leave the field blank to ignore it.

### Example: Microsoft Azure AD

For Microsoft Azure AD / Microsoft Graph the defaults already include the correct keys:

```
oauth_login_field: userPrincipalName
oauth_email_field: mail,userPrincipalName
oauth_firstname_field: givenName
oauth_lastname_field: sn,surname
```

## Security

- Uses state parameter to prevent CSRF attacks
- id_token / JWKS handling
- PKCE support in OAuth flow
- Validates OAuth responses before user creation
- Generates secure random passwords for OAuth users
- Logs all authentication attempts for auditing

## Troubleshooting

### OAuth Configuration Issues
1. Verify all URLs are accessible from your Redmine server
2. Check client ID and secret are correct
3. Ensure redirect URI matches exactly
4. Review Redmine logs for detailed error messages

### User Creation Problems
1. Check that required user data (email, username) is provided by OAuth
2. Verify user doesn't already exist with conflicting data
3. Ensure Redmine has permissions to create users

### SSO-Only Mode Recovery
If locked out due to SSO-only mode:
1. Use the rake command: `rake redmine:bless_this_sso:disable_sso_only`
2. Or access your Redmine database and run the SQL command shown in the admin interface
3. Restart Redmine to clear cached settings

## License

This plugin is released under the MIT License.

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Commit your changes
4. Push to the branch
5. Create a Pull Request
